International Student Admission – DEU | Dokuz Eylul University DEU DEBIS Menüye Geç HOME APPLICATION General Information Calendar Application Conditions Application and Preference Guide Accepted Exams/Diplomas Exam Fee Online Application ABOUT DEYOS Exam Information Sample Questions Examination Centers DEYOS Results DEYOS Result Card PREFERENCE Quotas & Requirements Universities Accepting DEYOS Result Placement Results ENROLLMENT Enrollment Guide Enrollment Documents Tuition Fee Diploma Equivalency Process (High School) Health Insurance Residence Permit Application CONTACT PROMOTIONAL VIDEOS Contact Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Rektörlüğü Cumhuriyet Bulvarı No: 144 P.K.: 35210, Alsancak, Konak/İZMİR (+90) 232 412 14 31
                 (+90) 232 412 14 32
(+90) 232 412 14 25 (+90) 232 412 14 03 deyos@deu.edu.tr Links © DEU News NEWS 2021 – DEYOS Examination Places 2021 – Application Process of Accepted Exams and Diplomas by the University Senate Application Process of 2021 – Dokuz Eylul University International Student Admission Exam (DEYOS) Announcement Archive >> 2021 – Application Process of Accepted Exams and Diplomas by the University Senate 2021 – Applications via accepted exams and diplomas by the University Senate will be taken between July 12, – August 16, 2021 Click here for the  Dokuz Eylul University International Student Admission Application, Placement, Enrollment Calendar Please read carefully the application conditions before starting application process. Click here for the accepted exams and diplomas by the University Senate Attention! Applications made with documents other than the exams and diplomas accepted by the University Senate will not be accepted . The applicant’s graduation grade must be included in the document who apply via diploma from the table of accepted exams and diplomas by the University Senate. T.R. nationals or dual nationals those his/her first nationality T.R. by birth, those who completed all of the secondary education (high school) in a foreign country except T.R.N.C. ; Applications of candidates who have received a diploma from a high school abroad through distance education without being abroad will not be accepted. Candidates who hold a diploma from a high school abroad through formal education will be requested to prove their passport or security records and their entry and exit to the country where the diploma was received, and if a conflict is detected between the duration of the high school education and the entry-exit dates to the relevant country, the applications of the relevant candidates will not be accepted. Turkish characters (ç, ğ, ı, ö, ş, ü) should not be used in the e-mail address typed when creating a user (Example: gmaıl.com should not be written). In addition, the e-mail address must be an active and valid address. Click here for the “Application and Preference Guide” prepared to assist you in the application process Click here for the quotas and requirements Click here for the tuition fees for the academic year 2021-2022 Online Application Click here for the guide prepared for warnings due to frequently made mistakes in the application process