FAQ - DEUZEM Menüye Geç Home About Us Our History Management and Team Board of Management Our Activities Live Broadcasts Regulations and Guidelines Contact FAQ a Is screen sharing possible in meetings? Within the meetings, you can share a specific application, a tab of the web browser, or your entire screen. You can find details in the “Create a Meeting for Instructors” video. a Will students be able to make live presentations? Students can make their presentations in “meetings module”. a I am having trouble connecting to the “meeting module”. All students and lecturers who have connection problems will not have problems logging into the system if they make proxy settings in their web browser. Click for DEU Proxy Settings. a I’ve graded assignments, but students can’t see the results. After the grading process of your assignment is finished, the “Post Assignment Scores” tab at the top of the page allows students to see both assignment grades and instructor comments, if any. a Some students cannot see the assignment that I posted. When posting assignments, make sure that access is set to “All Site Participants” in the edit section. a Students can see assignments, but they are unable to load the homework documents in it. While the SITE title is selected in the “Set Permissions” tab in the “PERMISSIONS” menu in the assignments tool, only “SEND ASSIGNMENT” and “READ ASSIGNMENT” must be active in “student” settings. a How can I publish a homework to a specific group? If you want only a certain group to access an assignment, you need to create a group in the GROUP OPERATIONS menu in the COURSE INFORMATION tab. Later, while making the HOMEWORK settings, you need to select the group you created in the access section. Click to watch “group creation” video. a How is the course opening process in online.deu.edu.tr? You can learn about the course opening process from video guides prepared for instructors. a There are courses that do not appear on the course creation page. How can I activate them? If you have a course that is not listed after you say “open course” on the course creation page, you can create your course by watching the video in the link below. Click for the video of “Creating an Unlisted Course”. a My course has been created, but students have not been appointed. How can I appoint students? If your course has been initialized but you do not see students under Course Information > Participants List, you can assign your students to that course by following the steps in the video in the link below. Watch this video to add students to a course manually. a I get a 404 error while entering online.deu.edu.tr. How can I solve this problem? Enter the settings of the browser you are using, clear its history and logs. Also try to login from different browsers (Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Opera, Safari, Edge etc.). a Can onlineDEU be used on mobile devices? From all mobile devices, you can log in to online.deu.edu.tr via browser and follow your lectures. You can attend live lectures. a How can I follow thesis, specialization and seminar courses? Your specialization and seminar courses can be activated by instructors at online.deu.edu.tr. a Do I need to install any software on my computer while using online.deu.edu.tr? You do not need to install any extra software on your computer. The page works on HTML5 and can work on all platforms through the browser. a When I enter online.deu.edu.tr page, there are errors in my name and surname information. How can I fix this? If there is a problem with your personal information, you need to correct it through DEBIS. It will go away in a while after the fix. a On which page will I enter my distanced education courses? You can login at http://online.deu.edu.tr with your DEBİS username and password. a Although I have converted my DEBIS account to name.surname, I cannot see my lectures. When you enter the DEBİS user account with your username such as name.surname@ogr.deu.edu.tr / surname.name@ogr.deu.edu.tr, you may not be able to display your courses. The reason for this is that your courses have been assigned to your DEBIS accounts with student numbers before making this change. a I cannot hear the voice of the instructor in the live lecture. What should I do? While participating in a live lecture, choose to participate with microphone. Turn off your microphone after entering the lesson. Thus, you will be able to hear the voice of the instructor in the lecture. Load More &nbspDebis Account System &nbspDEBİS &nbspIT Services &nbspDEU Library DOKUZ EYLÜL ÜNİVERSİTESİ UZAKTAN EĞİTİM UYGULAMA VE ARAŞTIRMA MERKEZİ - Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Dokuzçeşmeler Kampüsü Buca / İZMİR 35160 -
Tel: +90 232 3010793, Fax: +90 232 4201025 -
info@deuzem.deu.edu.tr Close Font Boyutunu Değiştir A- A+ Font Boyutu Resetle Font Değiştir Okunabiliir Font Kontrast Renk black white green blue red orange yellow navi Linklerin Altını Çiz Linkleri Belirginleştir Resetle Ölçeklendirme Renkler Işıkları Söndür Close Contact FAQ Home Live Broadcasts Management and Team Our Activities Our History Board of Management Regulations and Guidelines Support