Physical Education and Sports Teaching | Necat Hepkon Spor Bilimleri Fakültesi DEÜ DEBİS Menüye Geç Home Page About Faculty History Management Academic Staff Departments Physical Education and Sports Teaching Coaching Education Recreation Department Department of Sports Management For Students Academic Calendar Erasmus-Farabi-Mevlana Laboratory Contact Physical Education and Sports Teaching Department Introduction Head of Department Department Members Information Package Objectives of the Program The aim of the physical education and sports teaching program is to provide a healthy and physiological development of people, to spread and popularize sports to the masses and to train qualified and contemporary trainers with the qualifications that will enable Turkish sports and athletes to succeed in international fields. Main Courses in the Program The duration of education in physical education and sports teaching program is 4 years. You can access the teaching plan here. Required Qualifications In order to enter the physical education and sports program, first of all it is necessary to be skilled in a certain branch of sports. Since people working in this field serve as trainers in a sense, being able to communicate with people well, being patient and durable are factors that increase success in this field. Title of Graduates Those who finish the physical education and sports program work as “Physical Education and Sports Teacher”. Prof. Dr. Metin YAMAN CV Head of Department Tel: (232) 743 10 01 / 14200 Prof. Dr. Metin YAMAN Head of Department Assoc. Prof. Dr. Tuğbay İNAN Instructor Asst. Prof. Dr. Pınar TATLIBAL Instructor Lect. Dr. Celal GENÇOĞLU Instructor Lect. Dr. Mert TUNAR Instructor Lecturer Fırat ÖZDALYAN Instructor Lecturer Sinem TOÇOĞLU Instructor Lecturer Hakan ŞERİFOĞLU Instructor Res. Asst. Dr. Merve KOCA KOSOVA Instructor Res. Asst. Dr. Sercin KOSOVA Instructor Res. Asst. Esra KÜRKÇÜ AKGÖNÜL Instructor Course Structure Course Content @DEU Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Necat Hepkon Spor Bilimleri Fakültesi