Faculty of Nursing | Hemşirelik Fakültesi – DEU Menüye Geç Mainpage About Us Our Founder Our Dean’s Message Mission Vision and Aims Education Erasmus and Socrates Academic Calendar E-Journal Description and History of Faculty of Nursing Nursing profession has shown remarkable improvements in the fields of research, education and practice. Dokuz Eylül University Faculty of Nursing is also one of the pioneers of this progress. Faculty of Nursing assumed the leadership role in terms of developments in the field of nursing with its vision related to the nursing education and the Problem-Based Learning Approach that it adopted in its Education Programme. Our school found in the health campus of Dokuz Eylül University in İnciraltı started its academic life with the enrollment of 50 students in the academic year of 1994-1995 under the name of School of Nursing and Prof.Dr.Leman Birol was appointed as the director of the school. It also started the postgraduate education at the same year. The first postgraduate students graduated in 1997 while the first undergraduate students graduated in 1998. With the opening of foreign language preparation class in 1999, the period of education reached to 5 years. In 1999, Problem-Based Learning method was adopted to increase the active participation of students in the learning process. Prof.Dr.Gülseren Kocaman was the director of the School of Nursing between 1997-2007 and Prof.Dr.Besti Üstün took over the directorship in 2007 and maintained this service until 2010. Prof.Dr.Zuhal Bahar was appointed to the directorship of the school in 2010. The activities to turn the school into a faculty started in 2010 and finally, School of Nursing affiliated to the Rectorship of Dokuz Eylül University was closed down and the Faculty of Nursing was established following the Decision dated 26th August 2011 and no.28037 published in the Official Journal. Dokuz Eylül University Faculty of Nursing became the second second turned into a faculty after Istanbul University Faculty of Nursing. Prof.Dr.Zühal Bahar was appointed as deputy dean in 26.08.2011 and as dean in 20.02.2012. Our faculty had 567 undergraduate students, 105 postgraduate students and 754 graduates in the academic year of 2011-2012. It provides education in the undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral programmes with nine departments in total. Undergraduate programme was prepared in a manner to improve such skills of students as analytical thinking, effective communication and learning to learn. This programme provides our graduates with knowledges and experiences with which they can serve effectively at various health institutions. As of its establishment, our faculty has organized a great number of scientific activities, has made project partnerships and has carried out student and academician exchange programmes. Follow @hemsirelikdeu © Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi - Hemşirelik Fakültesi