Prospective Students – Dokuz Eylül University Faculty of Science Department of Mathematics Skip to content Dokuz Eylül University Faculty of Science Department of Mathematics Menu Home Department General Info Department Administration Divisions Committees People Faculty Education Academic Year Schedule Library Graduate Courses Catalog Recent Bachelor’s Degree Master’s Degree Doctorate Degree Archive The Graduate School of Natural and Applied Sciences Double Minor Program Prospective Students Research Arithmetic Group Algebra Group Geometry Group Topology Group Mathematical Physics Seminars Contact Türkçe Prospective Students Since the language of instruction in the department is 100% English, preparatory year is mandatory. There is no mandatory internship training. There is no dress code requirement. Our students do not pay any tuition fees for the courses they take in the fall and spring semesters. Sometimes the summer school program can be opened optionally, but students pay tuition fees for the courses they take. Our current program content is under the name of “ Course Catalog Information Package ” are available. During the pandemic process, our lessons are carried out with the support of DEUZEM via online.deu.edu.tr address. However, under normal conditions, our lessons are taught in the classrooms of the Department of Mathematics in the Faculty of Science at DEU Tınaztepe Campus. Students who want to work part-time can request up-to-date information from the Faculty of Science Dean’s Office. Announcements English Profiency Exam Announcement for Newly Registered International Students 5 Nov 2020 The English proficiency exam for … more İzmir Mathematic Days – III 11 Aug 2020 İzmir Mathematics Days – III … more 2019-2020 Spring Term Schedule 14 Jan 2020 All announcements Workshops İzmir Mathematic Days – III Arithmetica Izmir 3 İzmir Mathematics Days – II Arithmetica İzmir 2 WDEA2019 – The 9th International Workshop on Differential Equations and Applications Social Media Facebook Page Youtube Channel Mail adress: Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Tınaztepe Yerleşkesi, FenFakültesi Matematik Bölümü 35390 Buca/İzmir e-mail: matematik.fen@deu.edu.tr    Phone: +90 232 301 85 08    Fax: +90 232 453 41 88 © 2021 Dokuz Eylül University Faculty of Science Department of Mathematics • Powered by GeneratePress Scroll back to top