ANNOUNCEMENT ABOUT INTERNSHIP | İzmir Meslek Yüksekokulu DEU DEBİS Engelsiz İMYO Menüye Geç Anasayfa Okulumuz Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Tanıtım Filmi Tarihçe Misyon/Vizyon Değerlerimiz Kalite Politika & Hedeflerimiz Stratejik Plan & Hedefler Okul-Sanayi Koordinatörlüğü Teşkilat Şeması Müdürlerimiz Okul Tanıtımımız Fotoğraf Galerisi Tercih Rehberi Yönetim Yönetim Yönetim Kurulu Yüksekokul Kurulu Akademik Akademik Personel Akademik Formlar Akademik Takvim Bölümler Komisyonlar İdari İdari Personel Belgeler Öğrenci Online İmyo Öğrenci İşleri Birimi Kümülatif Hesaplama Yatay/Dikey Geçiş Mevzuat Ve Yönetmelikler Akademik Danışmanlık Yönergesi Öğrenci İşleri Formları Değişim Programları Erasmus Farabi Mevlana Diploma Sorgulama Öğrenci Toplulukları Edö / Staj Dosyaları İş ve Staj İlanları Uzaktan Eğitim Mezun Bilgi Formu Araştırma Yayınlar Projeler Seminerler İletişim Telefon Rehberi Ulaşım Dilek / Öneri / Şikayet ANNOUNCEMENT ABOUT INTERNSHIP Yayınlanma Tarihi: 03-06-2020 ANNOUNCEMENT ABOUT INTERNSHIP The status of our students who started their internship in the 2019-2020 Spring Semester and whose internships were stopped due to Pandemic and those who want to do their internship in the Summer Term are decided by the School Board of Directors. 1.The internships of our students who started their internship in the spring semester of 2019-2020 and completed more than half were considered as completed. In addition, they were not held responsible for the internship. The list of our students in this situation is provided in the attachment. We ask our students to examine their transcript and check that their Internship grades are processed correctly. These students do not need to take any other action related to the Internship. 2.The relevant dates have been determined for our students who have not yet made an internship application and want to do their summer internship. Internship Application Dates: 6-10 July 2020 Project / Assignment deadline: 31 July 2020 Students who want to do an internship in the summer term should state that they want to do an internship by e-mail to the internship course coordinators during the internship application dates and learn the projects / assignments determined by their programs. Our students are required to prepare their Project / Assignment which will be counted as an internship, and send them to the Internship Course coordinators by e-mail until the Project / Assignment deadline. The e-mail addresses of the Internship Course Coordinator where the application and Project / assignment will be delivered are attached. Students who want to do their internship in the summer term are required to follow the steps in the attached Pandemic Process Internship Flow Chart. It is deemed appropriate for our students who enrolled in our school in 2019 (1st year) to do internship in 2020-2021 period. Internship applications of these students will not be taken. Web Kayıt Öğretim Elemanı Bilgi Bankası Farabi Kurum Koordinatörlüğü EDUROAM – Kablosuz Ağ Erişimi Kariyer Planlama Koordinatörlüğü > Öğrenci El Kitabı Kütüphane DEÜ Öğrenci İşleri Sürekli Eğitim Merkezi (DESEM) OGEB (Olumlu / Olumsuz Geri Bildirim) > DEUZEM (Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Uzaktan Eğitim Uygulama ve Araştırma Merkezi) SUSCOF Sosyal Medya Sayfalarımız Youtube Twitter Instagram Facebook Adres: Ugur Mumcu Cd. 135 Sk. No:5 Buca/İZMİR – Özel Kalem Fax: 0(232) 420 51 81 – Evrak Kayıt Fax: (232) 440 29 29 © DEU