Photo Gallery | İzmir Meslek Yüksekokulu DEU DEBİS Engelsiz İMYO Menüye Geç Home Our School Our History Mission/Vision Values Our Goals & Quality Policy Strategic Plans & Targets School-Industry Coordination Our School Directors Our School Introduction Photo Gallery Preference Guide Administration Administration Administration Board School Board Academic Academic Staff Academic Forms Academic Calendar Departments Technical Programs Administrative Administrative Staff Student Student Affairs Unit Calculate Cumulative Point Horizontal / Vertical Pass Legislation and Regulations Student Affairs Forms Exchange Programs Erasmus Exchange Program Farabi Exchange Program Mevlana Exchange Program Student Clubs Edö / Internship Files Distance Education Contact Inter-Office Phonebook Transportation Photo Gallery KAREL Seminar, award and certificate ceremony was held in accordance with the Partnership in Education Protocol with KAREL. Click here to view photo gallery. Our school returned from the 35th Rectorate Cup Award Ceremony with 4 Cups. We congratulate our sports teams and coaches who have won the first place in Badminton, second place in Football (Men), second place in Volleyball (Men) and third place in Basketball (Men). Click here to view photo gallery. Dokuz Eylül University İzmir Vocational School Theater Group Theater IMYO participated in the theater competition organized by the Youth and Sports Presidency for the third time with the short play “UYAN” written and directed by our group. In our play ” UYAN”, we carried the yarışma Love of the Fatherland ’, the theme and theme of this year’s competition, to the stage of Çanakkale Victory, and we had the rightful pride of entering the 3rd place in İzmir Province qualification. Click here to view photo gallery. Web Kayıt Öğretim Elemanı Bilgi Bankası Farabi Kurum Koordinatörlüğü EDUROAM – Kablosuz Ağ Erişimi Kariyer Planlama Koordinatörlüğü > Öğrenci El Kitabı Kütüphane DEÜ Öğrenci İşleri Sürekli Eğitim Merkezi (DESEM) OGEB (Olumlu / Olumsuz Geri Bildirim) > DEUZEM (Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Uzaktan Eğitim Uygulama ve Araştırma Merkezi) SUSCOF Sosyal Medya Sayfalarımız Youtube Twitter Instagram Facebook Adres: Ugur Mumcu Cd. 135 Sk. No:5 Buca/İZMİR – Özel Kalem Fax: 0(232) 420 51 81 – Evrak Kayıt Fax: (232) 440 29 29 © DEU