FAQ – MEVLANA | Dış İlişkiler Koordinatörlüğü – DEU Virtual Tour DEU Menüye Geç Home International Students INTERNATIONAL STUDENT ADMISSION CERTIFICATE OF EQUIVALENCE OF DIPLOMA DEGREE PROGRAMS STUDENT VISA RESIDENCE PERMIT MEDICAL INSURANCE TUITION FEES ERASMUS+ ERASMUS+ PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION ERASMUS+ STUDENT MOBILITY ERASMUS+ STAFF MOBILITY ERASMUS COORDINATORS PRESENTATIONS – ERASMUS+ ERASMUS FOR DISABLED ONLINE LINGUISTIC SUPPORT (OLS) FAQ – ERASMUS+ USEFUL LINKS ERASMUS+ ANNOUNCEMENTS MEVLANA MEVLANA PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION MEVLANA STUDENT MOBILITY ACADEMIC STAFF MOBILITY – MEVLANA MEVLANA COORDINATORS PRESENTATIONS FAQ – MEVLANA USEFUL LINKS – MEVLANA MEVLANA ANNOUNCEMENTS Agreements ERASMUS+ AGREEMENTS MEVLANA AGREEMENTS ACADEMIC COLLABORATION PROTOCOLS İletişim FAQ – MEVLANA FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS Who can benefit from Mevlana Exchange Programme? Within the scope of Mevlana Exchange Programme, the students registered in formal education  programmes at Associate Degree, B.A, M.A and PhD levels of the higher education institutions in Turkey (on condition that the higher education institutions signed a bilateral Mevlana Exchange Protocol) may benefit from Mevlana Exchange Programme. Additionally, all the academic staff working at a national or foreign higher education institution (excluding Turkish nationals working as academic staff at universities abroad) may benefit from Mevlana Exchange Programme on condition that the higher education institutions signed a bilateral Mevlana Exchange Protocol. Application Requirements for Mevlana Exchange Programme To be a Mevlana Exchange Programme student: The student is required to be studying at associate degree, bachelor degree, master degree or PhD degree of higher education programmes, The grade point average (GPA) of associate degree and undergraduate students is to be at least 2,5 on a four-point scale. The grade point average (GPA) of graduate students (MA, PhD) is to be at least 3.00 on a four-point scale. 50% language score + 50% GPA The students studying in their first year at the associate or bachelor degree and the students of the preparation programmes of graduate degrees are not eligible for this programme at their first semester. To be a Mevlana Exchange Programme Academic Staff: All the academic staff working at a national or foreign higher education institution, on condition that the higher education institutions signed a bilateral Mevlana Exchange Protocol, may benefit from Mevlana Exchange Programme. Priority is given to special issues such as education language of the host higher-education institution, the language to be used in the lectures and his/her proficiency of the language to be used at the host institution. Priority is given to the academic staff who has not benefited from any kind of mobility activities before. What are the stages to follow in the assessment and selection of students? Considering the amount of grant transferred by the Council of Higher Education Executive Board, the institution determines the number and distribution of incoming and outgoing students within the scope of the bilateral agreements. The Higher Education Institutions cannot select any students for Mevlana Exchange Programme before signing the Mevlana Exchange Programme Protocol. In the assessment process, 50% of the applying students’ GPA (Grade Point Average) and 50% of the language test score to be used at host institution are taken into account and depending on their average sum, students are selected from the ranking list. The result of a bilaterally agreed language test is requested from the applying students by the signatory institutions to be used in the selection process. Assessment results are published on the web pages of signatory higher education institutions. The rules of this item are to be followed in the assessment and selection process of incoming students, as well. However, incoming students’ assessment and selection procedures are implemented within the knowledge of the domestic higher education institution. How can a student/academic staff apply to the programme if s/he has the requirements for application? Students may apply to the Mevlana Exchange Programme Institutional Coordinating Office of their institutions by filling the necessary documents that can also be obtained from https://mevlana.yok.gov.tr . Academic staff working at a signatory higher education institution may also apply to the Mevlana Exchange Programme Institutional Coordinating Offices of their institutions. Does the Mevlana Exchange Programme student repeat any semester at home institution? Since the courses to be taken at the host university and their equivalents at home university are clearly defined within the Learning Protocol, the student who participates in the Mevlana Exchange Programme for one or two semesters will not repeat the semester(s) at home institution on condition that s/he achieves the required credits. How many times and how long can we benefit from Mevlana Exchange Programme? Students can benefit from Mevlana Exchange Programme for at least one semester and at most two semesters. As the semester duration may differ according to the education system of universities, the total duration of mobility can not exceed one academic year. Students may be granted by Mevlana Exchange Programme only once during their whole educational life at any stage of higher education. A student may benefit from the programme at any stage of higher education for a second time without receiving grant. Academic staff may benefit from Mevlana Exchange Programme only once during an academic year and the duration may be between two weeks (at least) and three months (at most). What is the duration and content of Academic Staff teaching mobility? The academic activities of academic staff cannot be less than six hours a week. Lectures given by the staff are taken into account while calculating the activities as hours. If  the lectures are not sufficient to fulfill six hours of academic activities, seminars, panels, conferences or such activities can be considered within the academic activities. Any kind of academic staff mobility plan without teaching activities should not be assessed and accepted for the programme. Are the applicants supposed to submit a language test score document (YDS, TOEFL, IELTS, etc.)? One of the main criteria of selection for students is language score. However, there is not a standard language test or document defined by legislation to be accepted. The institutions may demand a national/international language test score or they can measure the language level with an exam developed by their institution. The language proficiency of applicants is one of the core elements affecting the quality and success of the programme and student. Higher education institutions are supposed to be sensitive in this issue in the selection process of applicants. What are the important dates of the application calendar for 2015-2016 academic year? Call for application at higher education institutions 30 March-17 April 2015 Receiving applications for exchange 20 April-27 April 2015 Assessment of applications 28 April-4 May 2015 Sending the selection results to The Council of Higher Education 8 May 2015 Announcing the selection results 29 May 2015 *The dates may change for each academic year. Does the student who wants to benefit from Mevlana Exchange Programme pay any tuition fee to the host institution? Students do not pay any tuition fees to the host institution during the programme, but they continue to pay the obligatory tuition fees to their home institutions. They do not pay any extra fee to the host institution within the scope of the exchange programme. What are the financial opportunities of students and academic staff in Mevlana Exchange Programme? Scholarship Daily Wage Transportation Cost Health Insurance Outgoing Student from Turkey √ Incoming Student to Turkey √ Outgoing Academic Staff from Turkey* √ √ Incoming Academic Staff to Turkey √ √ * Mevlana Outgoing Academic Staff Mobility has been stopped through a decision by CoHE (YÖK) and this decision will be valid unless it is changed by a second decision. Might the Mevlana Exchange Protocol include all departments/programmes of the higher education institution or should it cover some specific departments/programmes? Higher education institutions should define the departments and fields of exchange as well as the number of students and academic staff within the protocol. Our university signed Memorandum of Understanding agreements with partner universities abroad. Is it possible to include these agreements in Mevlana Exchange Programme? If we include them, do we need to change the protocols? In order to start Mevlana Exchange Programme, an institution has to sign a Mevlana Exchange Protocol with a partner university recognized by the Council of Higher Education. Any kind of other agreements signed with a partner university cannot be included in Mevlana Exchange Programme. To be able to start exchange, signing Mevlana Exchange Protocol is a must. Is there any restriction to signing a Mevlana Exchange Protocol with a public or private university abroad? There is not a restriction to signing a Mevlana Exchange Protocol with a public or private university abroad. May private/foundation universities benefit from Mevlana Exchange Programme? According to the 2nd item of the 28th article in Mevlana Exchange Programme Regulation which was published in The Official Journal with the number  28034 and  the date 23rd August 2011: Within the scope of this program private/foundation universities and private/foundation vocational schools can exchange students and academic staff with foreign higher educational institutions. However, no fund transfer or payment is done by the Council of Higher Education to these institutions within this programme. Except financial provisions, private/foundation universities and vocational schools are subject to these Regulation items to execute Mevlana Exchange programme and they are obliged to inform the Council of Higher Education. Are the incoming and outgoing students and staff to be exchanged with a private/foundation university abroad funded? The status of the partner university abroad (public/foundation/private) does not inhibit the grant to be funded by the Council of Higher Education. Why is it important to make an additional protocol besides Mevlana Exchange Programme Protocol? The signatory higher education institutions are recommended to make an additional protocol including the issues such as accommodation, food, health insurance, etc. and if the institutions have different grading and credit systems, these additional protocols help institutions agree on a common system. There is not a standard form of additional protocol, and its content is a text which will be determined in cooperation with the higher education institutions with which to make an agreement Is there a standard format for an additional protocol? Is there a restriction to the content of the additional protocol? There is neither a standard form of the additional protocol nor a restriction in its content. However, the items of additional protocol should not be incompatible with the Regulation and Principles of Mevlana Exchange Programme. Who is entitled to sign the Mevlana Exchange Protocol in the absence of the rector at the institution? In the absence of the rector at the institution, the deputy of rector is the only authority to sign the protocol. For the partner institutions abroad, the protocol is to be signed by the top authorities (this position may change according to the country, institution, etc). Should we send a copy of signed Protocols to the Council of Higher Education? The signed protocol should be sent to the Council of Higher Education both as soft copy and hard copy. The original of the Protocol should be archived in the signatory higher education institution. What is the amount of the scholarship of students to be funded by Mevlana Exchange Programme? For 2015-2016 academic year: The outgoing students, who study in a country in which national income for a person is more than 10.000 $, are paid 950 TL The outgoing students, who study in a country in which national income for a person is between 5000 and 10.000 $, are paid 850 TL The outgoing students, who study in a country in which national income for a person is less than 5000 $, are paid 750 TL; Incoming Mevlana Exchange Programme students to Turkey are paid 750 TL. For details and the scholarship amounts for each country, please visit mevlana.yok.gov.tr. Which credit and grading system will be used for Mevlana Exchange Programme students? Mevlana Exchange students cannot take a smaller number of credits at their host institution than they are required to take at their home institutions in the same semester. During the exchange, the number of credits is taken into account rather than the number of courses taken. The signatory higher education institutions can use a common credit system agreed by both institutions after declaring it in a written agreement form or they may use European Credit Transfer System (ECTS). In order to prevent course repetitions due to the courses students take at their home institutions, the recognition of courses to be taken  at host  institution and to prevent any kind of repetition of courses, credits, semester or year, the signatory higher education institutions should take necessary precautions. For this reason, courses from different years can be taken to complete the necessary number of credits and to prevent repetitions. Within the Learning Protocol, the credits of courses and the courses to be counted should be clearly defined before the educational semester starts. While counting the courses taken and passed at the host institution, the grading system of the host institution is considered and recorded. The students who plan to study at a university with a different grading system are to be informed before the exchange. The students who sign the learning agreement are automatically declared and informed about this issue. Recognized courses are approved by the board of the academic department concerned. The courses passed in Mevlana Exchange Programme should be stated in the transcript of records at the home institution. Can research assistants benefit from the Programme? Research assistants (if registered in a postgraduate programme) can benefit from the programme as a student. Since research assistants are not formally paid lecturers, they cannot benefit from this programme as an academic staff. Is there a yearly quota given to the higher education institutions by the Council of Higher Education? There is no yearly quota for each higher education institution. In the second page of Mevlana Exchange Protocol, signatory institutions define the departments, duration and number of students/staff to be exchanged. A copy of these protocols is sent to the Council of Higher Education and the Executive Board of the Council assess the demands of institutions and may revise these demands in order to execute the programme and use the financial sources more effectively. Can MA/PHD students at thesis stage (after fulfilling the courses) benefit from Mevlana Exchange Programme? Do they need to apply any work plan at host institutions or what kind of plan should they use? MA and PhD students at thesis stage (after fulfilling the courses) may benefit from Mevlana Exchange Programme if they have the requirements in the regulation. Whether the student should take a course or not and have thesis research should be decided by department heads and coordinators. The Council of Higher Education leaves this decision to the departments. However, the student should have measurable educational activities during his/her study. This is needed in order to check the quality of exchange (whether the student fully participated in the activities or not), the payment and for the student not to repeat any semesters. Can the 6th-year medicine students benefit from the programme? 6thyear Medicine students (intern) cannot benefit from Mevlana Exchange Programme according to the decision to stop their Mevlana Exchange activities until a second decision in the 2013-2014 academic year. Is there any kind of exemption from residence permit fee in Turkey? If the students, who come to Turkey after obtaining student visa from their countries, submit a document indicating that they are Mevlana Exchange students (signed by Mevlana Institutional Coordinators), and show the starting and ending dates of mobility with the university they will study in, a free-of-charge residence permit is given on condition that they apply within the first month of their entrance into Turkey. How can I get more information about the programme? From Mevlana Exchange Programme Coordination offices of your institution, From https://mevlana.yok.gov.tr/ web page, Or you can get information and necessary documents from The Council of Higher Education and Mevlana Exchange Programme Coordinatorship. Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Dış İlişkiler Koordinatörlüğü Cumhuriyet Bulvarı No:144 Alsancak / İzmir 35210 / Türkiye international@deu.edu.tr erasmus@deu.edu.tr mevlana@deu.edu.tr © DEU