Application Conditions | International Student Admission – DEU DEU DEBIS Menüye Geç HOME APPLICATION General Information Calendar Application Conditions Application and Preference Guide Accepted Exams/Diplomas Exam Fee Online Application ABOUT DEYOS Exam Information Sample Questions Examination Centers DEYOS Results DEYOS Result Card PREFERENCE Quotas & Requirements Universities Accepting DEYOS Result Placement Results ENROLLMENT Enrollment Guide Enrollment Documents Tuition Fee Diploma Equivalency Process (High School) Health Insurance Residence Permit Application CONTACT APPLICATION CONDITIONS A. In accordance with the “ Principles Regarding Acceptance of Students from Abroad “ of the Council of Higher Education Presidency, the applications of the following candidates are accepted . If they are in the final year of high school or a high school graduate; Foreign nationals/Heimatlos (Heimatlos (stateless person) candidates are considered to be foreign nationals regardless of whether they have studied in Turkey or outside of Turkey.) , Those who are natural born Turkish citizens and have received permission of renouncement of nationality from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and those who can prove that they possess the Document Related to the Usage of the Rights Granted Based on the Turkish Citizenship Law for their minor children registered at the document of renunciation of Turkish citizenship (those having the “Document of Renunciation of Turkish Citizenship” or the “Blue ID” as of the deadline of application) , In accordance with the 6 th and 7 th articles of the Turkish Citizenship Law numbered 5901, those who are foreign citizens passed to Turkish citizenship by acquired citizenship/dual citizens in this case, except for the natural born Turkish citizenship, From the students who have Turkish nationality continuing secondary education abroad before 01/02/2013, those who completed the last 3 (three) years of secondary education (high school) in a foreign country other than T.R.N.C. (Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus) (Including those who have completed all secondary education (high school) in Turkish Schools established by the Ministry of Education in a foreign country other than T.R.N.C.) , From the students who have Turkish nationality started secondary education abroad after 01/02/2013, those who completed all of secondary education (high school) in a foreign country other than T.R.N.C. (Including those who have completed all secondary education (high school) in Turkish Schools established by the Ministry of Education in a foreign country other than T.R.N.C.) , Those who are T.R.N.C. citizens, residing in the T.R.N.C. and completed secondary (high school) education in T.R.N.C. having GCE AL (General Certificate of Education (GCE) Advanced Level) exam results, and the ones who have or will have GCE AL exam results by enrolling and being educated at other country high schools between 2005-2010. B. In accordance with the “ Principles Regarding Acceptance of Students from Abroad “ of the Council of Higher Education Presidency, the applications of the following candidates are not accepted . Turkish citizens who complete all of their high school education in Turkey or T.R.N.C., T.R.N.C. citizens (Except for those who have GCE AL results and finished all secondary education in T.R.N.C. high schools and who have enrolled and educated in colleges and high schools in other countries between 2005 and 2010 having or will have GCE AL exam results) , Dual citizens who are Turkish citizens by birth (Except for those who have completed all of their secondary education (high school) in Turkish schools of MEB opened in a foreign country except T.R.N.C.) , Dual citizens (one of them being Turkish) at the same time by birth who completed all their secondary education in Turkey, Dual citizens one of them being T.R.N.C. (Except for those who have GCE AL results finishing all secondary education in T.R.N.C. high schools and who have enrolled and educated in colleges and high schools in other countries between 2005 and 2010 having or will have GCE AL exam results) , Turkish citizens or dual citizens whose first citizenship at birth is Turkish and are educated in the schools of Turkish embassies and in foreign high schools in Turkey, IMPORTANT! For the reason that the 6 th and 7 th articles of Turkish Citizenship Law numbered 5901 states the following ; Article 6 – Natural born Turkish citizenship is earned spontaneously based on paternity or birthplace. Turkish Citizenship by birth takes effect as of the moment of birth. Article 7 – An infant born from the marriage of a mother or a father having Turkish citizenship inside or outside of Turkey is considered Turkish citizen. An infant born from the union of a Turkish mother and a foreign father without marriage is considered Turkish citizen. An infant born from the union of a Turkish father and a foreign mother without marriage will earn Turkish citizenship if the principles and procedures that providing for the establishment of paternity are fulfilled. Candidates who completed all their secondary education (high school) in Turkey must prove that they are not covered by the articles above (not to be a natural born Turkish citizen)(Document taken from the Civil Registry such as the Certificate of Identity Register Copy is necessary) . Contact Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Rektörlüğü Cumhuriyet Bulvarı No: 144 P.K.: 35210, Alsancak, Konak/İZMİR (+90) 232 412 14 31
                 (+90) 232 412 14 32
(+90) 232 412 14 25 (+90) 232 412 14 03 deyos@deu.edu.tr Links © DEU News NEWS 2021 – DEYOS Examination Places 2021 – Application Process of Accepted Exams and Diplomas by the University Senate Application Process of 2021 – Dokuz Eylul University International Student Admission Exam (DEYOS) Announcement Archive >>