Residence Permit Application | International Student Admission – DEU DEU DEBIS Menüye Geç HOME APPLICATION General Information Calendar Application Conditions Application and Preference Guide Accepted Exams/Diplomas Exam Fee Online Application ABOUT DEYOS Exam Information Sample Questions Examination Centers DEYOS Results DEYOS Result Card PREFERENCE Quotas & Requirements Universities Accepting DEYOS Result Placement Results ENROLLMENT Enrollment Guide Enrollment Documents Tuition Fee Diploma Equivalency Process (High School) Health Insurance Residence Permit Application CONTACT Residence Permit Application The booklets about the residence permit applications prepared by the General Directorate of Migration Management of the Ministry of Interior in 5 languages which include information and guidance are given below. Turkish English Russian Arabic Persian General Information About Residence Permit: Student Residence Permit is issued to foreign nationals who will study associate’s degree, bachelor’s degree, master’s degree or doctorate in a higher education institution in Turkey. Foreign nationals students are required to obtain a residence permit (Except for those who have any other right to stay legal in our country ( e.g. international protection applicant/status holder, temporary protection status holder, work permit holder etc. )). Residence permit application must be done from the date of entry into Turkey within 30 (thirty) days via https://e-ikamet.goc.gov.tr web page (if you have long-term visa more than 30 days or visa exemption, you have to apply before the end of that period). Residence permit applications can not be made with an expired passport. To obtain a residence permit, absolutely must have a valid health insurance in Turkey. If you do not have a residence address in İzmir yet, you can inform the address of our university in the residence permit application. In this case, your residence permit card will come to our University and you can receive your card by hand by coming with your original passport. You have to make an “Extension Application” through the e-residence system via https://e-ikamet.goc.gov.tr web page within 60 (sixty) days prior to the expiration of the residence permit and, in any case, before the expiration of the residence permit. In case of faculty or program change or university change within the same city, you must notify the Izmir Provincial Directorate of Migration Management within 20 (twenty) business days. If you plan to continue your studies in a different city, you must notify the Provincial Directorate of Migration Management in the city where the new university is located within 10 (ten) business days. If you change your address during your residence time, you must submit the required documents to the İzmir Provincial Directorate of Migration Management and the Directorate of Civil Registration and Citizenship within 20 (twenty) business days. If you have a residence permit obtained from another city, you must make a transfer application via https://e-ikamet.goc.gov.tr web page after enrolling to our university. Your Student Residence Permit will be cancelled in case you suspend studies to the university, drop out from university and do not renew your enrollment. If there are any changes to your personal information ( e.g. marital status, address, passport data or similar cases ), you have to notify the Provincial Directorate of Migration Management of the change in 20 (twenty) business days. A student who can not graduate in a regular education period can extend the permit for a period of no more than 1 year for every time if he/she applies with a student certificate. The validity period of the passport must necessarily exceed the permit period. In case of a change of passport, this must be reported to the İzmir Provincial Directorate of Migration Management within 20 (twenty) business days. Video of How to Apply for Residence Permit: Turkish Expression English Expression You can access the “Frequently Asked Questions” page about the residence permit prepared by the Directorate General of Migration Management at https://www.goc.gov.tr/ikamet-sss İZMİR PROVINCIAL DIRECTORATE OF MIGRATION MANAGEMENT Address 855 Sok. No:40/A Kemeraltı, Konak/İZMİR Phone 0 (232) 402 44 62 E-Mail izmir@goc.gov.tr Web https://izmir.goc.gov.tr You can also call the “FOREIGN COMMUNICATION CENTER (YİMER)” 157 for all your questions and problems. Contact Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Rektörlüğü Cumhuriyet Bulvarı No: 144 P.K.: 35210, Alsancak, Konak/İZMİR (+90) 232 412 14 31
                 (+90) 232 412 14 32
(+90) 232 412 14 25 (+90) 232 412 14 03 deyos@deu.edu.tr Links © DEU News NEWS 2021 – DEYOS Examination Places 2021 – Application Process of Accepted Exams and Diplomas by the University Senate Application Process of 2021 – Dokuz Eylul University International Student Admission Exam (DEYOS) Announcement Archive >>