Employment Procedures for Foreign Staff | DEU International Website Menüye Geç Home About Student International Student Admissions Academic Supervision Degree Programs Course Catalog Scholarships for International Students Student Visa Residence Permit Health Insurance Tuition Fees Academic Calendar Career Planning & Alumni Relations Erasmus+ Student Mobility Message from Our Students Student Guidebook Study in Turkey Research Post-Graduate Education Research and Application Centers Scientific Research Unit Technology and Innovation DEU Labs Employment Procedures for Foreign Staff Academic Units Library Partnerships Erasmus+ Partnerships Global Partnerships Mevlana Partnerships International Relations Office Home Employment Procedures for Foreign Staff Employment Procedures for Foreign Staff Foreign teaching staff can be employed for certain periods at Dokuz Eylül University. The University may contract foreign teaching staff and the term of appointment is determined in the contract. Application, selection and employment procedures are in line with the procedures and principles determined by Turkish Higher Education Board. Prospective foreign teaching staff should first get into contact with the relevant academic unit. The employment procedures and principles for foreign national teaching staff members are given below: General Provisions with respect to Foreign National Teaching Staff 1. The following decisions made at the Executive Committee Meetings dated 01.10.2009 and 17.09.2014 respectively regarding the academic staff that could not be offered to be employed at the status of foreign national teaching staff should be considered while making an offer to the Board of Higher Education with respect to the employment of the foreign national teaching staff. 2. In the case when the teaching staff working at the status of foreign national teaching staff at one university is offered to be employed at another university, it is preferable to wait for the termination of the contract of the related teaching staff, or otherwise the offer should be accompanied with a letter of approval, which allows the relevant employee’s leave within the contract period. 3. The following should be considered in the analysis process of the documents of those that would be employed at the status of foreign national teaching staff. a) The title of the foreign national teaching staff should be indicated and the gross monthly wage of the related staff should be determined following a comparison with the other foreign national teaching staff on the basis of their research, publications and performance. b) In the case when the related foreign national teaching staff received the last academic title while being employed at a higher education institution in Turkey, it should be taken into consideration whether the relevant appointment criteria valid at the university to be employed are met or not. c) At the termination of the contract period, the conditions should be considered in terms of yearly academic performance and reported to the Rectorate. SPECIAL TERMS REGARDING THE EMPLOYMENT OF THE FOREIGN NATIONAL TEACHING STAFF Employment at the Foreign Language Preparatory Classes The minimum requirements to be met in the employment procedure of the foreign national lecturers at the foreign language preparatory classes of the Higher Education Institutions are as follows: 1. The lecturers to be employed at the English preparatory classes for English language teaching, whose native language is English, should bear at least an undergraduate degree in the departments including linguistics, language and literature, comparative literature, teaching or educational sciences (pedagogy), or should meet at least one of the conditions below, while also provided that the relevant teaching staff hold at least an undergraduate degree. a) to have a minimum two-year work experience in teaching the related language at an accredited internationally recognized language teaching center, and/or b) to hold a DELTA or CELTA certificate. 2. The foreign national teaching staff to be employed at the English preparatory classes for English language teaching, whose native language is not English, should hold at least an undergraduate degree from the departments including English language, English Literature, English Language Teaching and should meet at least one of the conditions below. a) to have a minimum two-year work experience in teaching the related language at an accredited internationally recognized language teaching center, and/or b) to hold a DELTA or CELTA certificate. 3. The foreign national teaching staff to be employed for the instruction of languages except for English should meet the pre-condition of holding at least an undergraduate degree in the related language in addition to meeting at least one of the conditions below. a) to have a minimum two-year work experience at the instruction of the language to be employed, or b) to have a minimum one-year work experience of academic quality. Employment at the Associate Degree Programs The foreign national teaching staff to be employed at the Associate Degree Programs at the Higher Education Institutions should meet the pre-condition of holding at least an undergraduate degree in addition to meeting at least one of the conditions below. a) to have a minimum two-year work experience of academic quality at a Higher Education Institution recognized by the Board of Higher Education, b) to hold a master’s degree in the program, which the academic staff will be employed at. Employment at the Undergraduate and Master’s Programs 1. The foreign national teaching staff to be employed in order to give courses at the undergraduate and master’s programs should hold a doctoral degree and meet at least one of the conditions below in addition to proving his/her proficiency level at the language of the medium of instruction of the course he/she will give: a) to certify that the related staff has a minimum one-year work experience as a teaching staff at a Higher Education Institution recognized by the Board of Higher Education, b) To have at least one book published in his/her field of study or have at least five articles published at refereed journals. 2. The foreign national teaching staff should also have at least a master’s degree to be employed at units providing instruction at under-graduate level alike the lecturers with Turkish citizenship who are graduated from a master’s program with thesis. Employment with the Purpose of Research in addition to Giving Courses To be able to employ foreign national teaching staff at Higher Education Institutions in projects as well as research activities in addition to giving courses, the candidate should meet at least one of the conditions below: a) to hold a master’s or doctoral degree or to have worked at least one year as an academician or researcher at one of the universities ranking within the first 1000 in any of the world university rankings [Times Higher Education (THE); World University Rankings, QS World University Rankings or Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU)], b) to have published at least ten articles indexed journals recognized by the authorized boards of the university to be employed at. c) to have taken part as a coordinator or researcher in at least one ongoing or successfully completed research project, which is of scientific quality and contributes to science and industry. Foreign national teaching staff that would be employed within this scope is allowed to bring with them at most three doctorate students at the status of research assistant on condition that their costs are covered within the project revenues and their contributions to the project are tangibly proven. Besides, the teaching staff that would be assigned work in projects and research as well as giving courses can also be employed for short term on condition that the duration is not less than two months. Foreign national teaching staff that would be assigned work in projects and research in addition to giving courses can be offered a higher wage on condition that they are proven to have an internationally recognized success and have the quality of contributing to the international visibility of the university. Employment within the Field of Fine Arts Those who would be employed at the Conservatory, Fine Arts as well as Art and Design Faculties as a foreign national teaching staff should hold at least an under-graduate degree and meet at least one of the conditions below: a) to have a minimum two year academic or institutional work experience within the related field of arts. b) to have conducted at least three authentic art activities, events, projects, designs, etc. within the last three years. OTHER ISSUES 1. Visiting teaching staff as well as foreign national teaching staff employed unpaid within the scope of international and bilateral agreements between the institutions as well as exchange programs are not imposed to the conditions above. Thus, the work procedure of those to be employed within this framework are implemented in accordance with the legislation provisions in force. 2. Above conditions are valid for the foreign national teaching staff to be offered for employment as of 20.01.2020 whereas the foreign national teaching staff currently employed at higher education institutions can be granted an extension of time for six months and at most twice starting from the date of the termination of their contract. The contracts of those who fail to meet the necessary conditions within the additional time period granted are not extended. Please note that the candidates must first get into contact with the related academic unit. Source: Yabancı Uyruklu Öğretim Elemanı İstihdamıyla İlgili Usul ve Esaslar, https://personel.deu.edu.tr/atama-sube-mudurlugu/ Research Post-Graduate Education Research and Application Centers Scientific Research Unit Technology and Innovation Employment Procedures for Foreign Staff © Dokuz Eylul University