International Student Admissions | DEU International Website Menüye Geç Home About Student International Student Admissions Academic Supervision Degree Programs Course Catalog Scholarships for International Students Student Visa Residence Permit Health Insurance Tuition Fees Academic Calendar Career Planning & Alumni Relations Erasmus+ Student Mobility Message from Our Students Student Guidebook Study in Turkey Research Post-Graduate Education Research and Application Centers Scientific Research Unit Technology and Innovation DEU Labs Employment Procedures for Foreign Staff Academic Units Library Partnerships Erasmus+ Partnerships Global Partnerships Mevlana Partnerships International Relations Office Home International Student Admissions International Student Admissions The placement process of the candidates who want to study at associate’s degree and bachelor’s degree in our University within the scope of the international student admission quotas is made according to the result of “Dokuz Eylul University International Student Admission Exam (DEYOS)” or the results of international exam score/diploma grade which accepted by the Senate of the University. Exam results organized by other universities are not accepted. The results of DEYOS are valid for the year of the exam. For the results of international examinations according to the decision of the Council of Higher Education Presidency; there is no limitation in the validity period of the exams (Abitur, International Baccalaureate, GCE, Tawjihi, etc.) which are in the status of high school graduation examinations (Maturita). But the validity period of the exams (SAT etc.) which are in the status of university entrance examination is 2 (two) years. For more detailed information on International Student Application at DEU, please visit: http://deyos.deu.edu.tr/ Application Conditions In accordance with the “Principles Regarding Acceptance of Students from Abroad“ of the Council of Higher Education Presidency, the applications of the following candidates are accepted. If they are in the final year of high school or graduated; Foreign nationals/Haymatloses (Haymatlos (stateless person) candidates are considered to be foreign nationals regardless of whether they have studied in Turkey or outside of Turkey.), Those who are natural born Turkish citizens and have received permission of renouncement of nationality from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and those who can prove that they possess the Document Related to the Usage of the Rights Granted Based on the Turkish Citizenship Law for their minor children registered at the document of renunciation of Turkish citizenship (those having the “Document of Renunciation of Turkish Citizenship” and the “Blue ID” as of the deadline of application), In accordance with the 6th and 7th articles of the Turkish Citizenship Law numbered 5901, those who are foreign citizens passed to Turkish citizenship by acquired citizenship/dual citizens in this case, except for the natural born Turkish citizenship, From the students who have Turkish nationality continuing secondary education abroad before 01/02/2013, those who completed the last 3 (three) years of secondary education (high school) in a foreign country other than T.R.N.C. (Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus)(Including those who have completed all secondary education (high school) in Turkish Schools established by the Ministry of Education in a foreign country other than T.R.N.C.), From the students who have Turkish nationality started secondary education abroad after 01/02/2013, those who completed all of secondary education (high school) in a foreign country other than T.R.N.C. (Including those who have completed all secondary education (high school) in Turkish Schools established by the Ministry of Education in a foreign country other than T.R.N.C.), Those who are T.R.N.C. citizens, residing in the T.R.N.C. and completed secondary (high school) education in T.R.N.C. having GCE AL (General Certificate of Education (GCE) Advanced Level) exam results, and the ones who have or will have GCE AL exam results by enrolling and being educated at other country high schools between 2005-2010. In accordance with the “Principles Regarding Acceptance of Students from Abroad“ of the Council of Higher Education Presidency, the applications of the following candidates are not accepted. Turkish citizens who complete all of their high school education in Turkey or T.R.N.C., R.N.C. citizens (Except for those who have GCE AL results and finished all secondary education in T.R.N.C. high schools and who have enrolled and educated in colleges and high schools in other countries between 2005 and 2010 having or will have GCE AL exam results), Dual citizens who are natural born Turkish citizens (Except for those who have completed all of their secondary education (high school) in Turkish schools of the Ministry of Education opened in a foreign country except for T.R.N.C.), Those who are dual citizens (one of them being Turkish) and completed all of their secondary education in Turkey, Dual citizens one of them being T.R.N.C. (Except for those who have GCE AL results finishing all secondary education in T.R.N.C. high schools and who have enrolled and educated in colleges and high schools in other countries between 2005 and 2010 having or will have GCE AL exam results), Turkish citizens or dual citizens whose first citizenship at birth is Turkish and those are educated in the schools in the charge of Turkish embassies and in foreign high schools in Turkey, Important Notice In the 6th and 7th articles of Turkish Citizenship Law numbered 5901; Article 6 – Natural born Turkish citizenship is earned spontaneously according to paternity or birth place. Turkish Citizenship by birth take effect as of the moment of birth. Article 7 – An infant born from the marriage of a mother or a father having Turkish citizenship inside or outside of Turkey is considered Turkish citizen. An infant born from the union of a Turkish mother and a foreign father without marriage is considered Turkish citizen. An infant born from the union of a Turkish father and a foreign mother without marriage will earn Turkish citizenship if the principles and procedures that providing for the establishment of paternity are fulfilled. Due to the articles that take place, candidates who completed all of secondary education (high school) in Turkey must prove that they are not covered by the articles above (not to be a natural born Turkish citizen)(Document taken from the Civil Registry such as the Certificate of Identity Register Copy is necessary). Required Documents for Enrollment are 1- High school diploma or original provisional certificate of graduation (with 1 copy) 2- For T.R. nationals who completed all of their high school education abroad a document showing that they studied abroad in high school 3- Approved equivalence certificate of high school diploma from the Ministry of National Education, Provincial Directorates of National Education or representations in foreign countries (It is valid for the applicants who graduated from other foreign high schools except T.R.N.C.) 4- The original document of the exam/diploma declared by the applicants with an international exam score/diploma grade and the Turkish translation of the document approved by the notary public or official authorities 5- Study visa or residence permit (It is valid for foreign nationals) 6- Bank receipt of the contribution deposit/tuition fee (For daytime education programs, Syrian nationals, Blue Card holders and T.R. nationals graduated from foreign high schools do not need to make payment to the bank.) 7- Six (4,5 x 6 cm) colored headshot photographs (taken in the last six months, frontal, and the candidate must be recognizable in the photograph) 8- If present, Turkish proficiency certificate (Turkish proficiency certificate issued by DEDAM, TOMER or Yunus Emre Institute)(Except for graduates of Turkish high schools and Turkish Universities) 9- If present, foreign language proficiency certificate from the candidates who apply to the departments which provide completely or partially foreign language education (Evaluation will be done by DEU School of Foreign Languages )(Candidates who do not have a foreign language proficiency certificate are required to take the proficiency exam to be held by DEU School of Foreign Languages) 10- Contract or document showing the income to provide a living in Turkey (Contract will be in the announcement) 11- Health report to be received from a full-fledged state hospital for candidates who enrolled at the Faculty of Nursing, Faculty of Medicine, Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation Program of the School of Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation, the Civil Aviation Transportation Management Program of the Efes Vocational School, and the Oral and Dental Health, Anesthesia, First Aid and Emergency, Audiometry Programs of the Vocational School of Health Services. 12- “The Declaration of Alienage” and “Blue Card” from those who are Turkish citizens by birth, but acquired permission to leave Turkish citizenship (with 2 copies for each) 13- “Certificate of Naturalisation” from those who are foreign nationals by birth and acquired Turkish nationality and have dual citizenship (Certificate of Identity Register copy of her/himself and her/his parents) 14- Translation and certified copy of passport. 15- GCE AL certificate of T.R.N.C. citizens enrolled according to DEYOS exam result 16- A copy of T.R. identity card (From T.R. nationals graduated from foreign high schools) 17- Criminal record certificate (From the candidates enrolled at the Civil Aviation Transportation Management Program of the Efes Vocational School Explanations: It is compulsory to attend DEU Foreign Language Proficiency Exam for those who will attend to the departments which provide completely or partially foreign language education and do not have foreign language proficiency certificate. The proficiency exam will be held at DEU School of Foreign Languages. (Adress: 24 Sokak No:2 Dokuzçeşmeler Buca/İZMİR). You can find the related information: www.ydy.deu.edu.tr (Tel: 232 301 08 31-32-33) It is compulsory to attend Proficiency Exam for those who will attend to the Theology departments of Faculty of Theology and do not have Arabic language proficiency certificate. The proficiency exam will be held at DEU Faculty of Theology (Address: Adnan Süvari Mah. 108/2 Sk. No: 20 35140 Karabağlar/İZMİR) You can find the related information: http://ilahiyat.deu.edu.tr Those who do not have Turkish Proficiency Certificate should take Turkish Language Proficiency Test organized by our University’s Language Education and Research Center (DEDAM) in order to determine their Turkish level. You can visit http://dedam.deu.edu.tr web page to get information about the place, date and time of the exam. Enrollment Address: Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Rektörlüğü Öğrenci İşleri Daire Başkanlığı Cumhuriyet Bulvarı No: 144 35210 Alsancak, Konak/İZMİR Diploma Equivalency Process (High School) Those who graduated from secondary education institutions (high school) in a foreign country, are required to certify their high school diploma is an equivalent diploma to a Turkish high school diploma. The equivalence procedure is carried out in the national education directorates in the provinces and metropolitan districts with a population of 250,000 and above, and in the education consultancy or attaché offices abroad. Those who graduated from high schools which opened by the Republic of Turkey in the foreign countries and high schools in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is not subjected the equivalency procedure. The equivalence procedure is carried out through the e-Equivalence module (the system where the equivalence transactions are carried out electronically and the information is kept) with the originals of the documents of the person requesting equivalence. Documents required for equivalency procedure are: Application Form (Those who apply for the equivalence process, fill in the “Application Form for Equivalence Certificate (ANNEX-1)” over the e-Equivalence module, the original and a copy of the following documents are attached to the form.) Identity Document, Residence Permit, Temporary Protection Certificate, International Protection Applicant Identity Document, International Protection Status Holder Identity Document, Stateless Person Identity Document, Passport documents The Turkish translation approved by a notary public or the Republic of Turkey Foreign Representative Documents Apostille, in cases where there is no Apostille, a document showing that you are entitled to get a diploma/diploma approved by the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Foreign Affairs or Embassy. Documents added to the Application Form for Equivalence Certificate Claims are uploaded to the system by the applicants and the originals of the documents are submitted to the equivalence center. In the event that the documents are fake or it is detected that they have been tampered with, equivalence will not be given by the center, if given, they will be cancelled and a criminal complaint will be made to the relevant Chief Public Prosecutor’s Office. Student Academic Calendar Academic Supervision International Student Admissions Degree Programs Course Catalog Scholarships for International Students Student Visa Residence Permit Health Insurance Tuition Fees Career Planning & Alumni Relations Erasmus+ Student Mobility Message from Our Students Student Guidebook Study in Turkey © Dokuz Eylul University