Scientific Research Unit | DEU International Website Menüye Geç Home About Student International Student Admissions Academic Supervision Degree Programs Course Catalog Scholarships for International Students Student Visa Residence Permit Health Insurance Tuition Fees Academic Calendar Career Planning & Alumni Relations Erasmus+ Student Mobility Message from Our Students Student Guidebook Study in Turkey Research Post-Graduate Education Research and Application Centers Scientific Research Unit Technology and Innovation DEU Labs Employment Procedures for Foreign Staff Academic Units Library Partnerships Erasmus+ Partnerships Global Partnerships Mevlana Partnerships International Relations Office Home Scientific Research Unit Scientific Research Unit Students and researchers can benefit from the opportunities provided by the university’s own financial resources and from the research grants provided by the regional, national and international institutions. Scientific Research Unit of the university supports project oriented academic life at DEU. The projects can be grouped into four according to the financing institution. DEU supports selected scientific research projects by its own financial resources. These are called as scientific research projects supported by the self-income of the university. Also, the Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey supports scientific research projects as wells as projects bringing university with industry together for innovation. Besides, international institutions such as European Union or the United Nations supports scientific research projects. Moreover, other public and private institutions such as ministries, public institutions, municipalities open project calls and researchers at DEU can apply and benefit from these project grants. The prolific scientific research environment at DEU resulted in 405 scientific research projects supported by the self-income of the university. DEU is the home of 103 projects supported by the Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey. Also, international projects are being supported by the university. DEU manages 33 European Union projects. Besides, DEU has been granted 2 IZKA projects which are the projects supported by Izmir Development Agency. For more information on Scientific Research Unit: http://bap.deu.edu.tr/en/ Research Post-Graduate Education Research and Application Centers Scientific Research Unit Technology and Innovation Employment Procedures for Foreign Staff © Dokuz Eylul University