About | DEU International Website Menüye Geç Home About Student International Student Admissions Academic Supervision Degree Programs Course Catalog Scholarships for International Students Student Visa Residence Permit Health Insurance Tuition Fees Academic Calendar Career Planning & Alumni Relations Erasmus+ Student Mobility Message from Our Students Student Guidebook Study in Turkey Research Post-Graduate Education Research and Application Centers Scientific Research Unit Technology and Innovation DEU Labs Employment Procedures for Foreign Staff Academic Units Library Partnerships Erasmus+ Partnerships Global Partnerships Mevlana Partnerships International Relations Office AT A GLANCE Dokuz Eylül University (DEU) has a long and proud history of being a hub of research and education in Turkey, particularly in the Aegean Region since its foundation in 1982. It is one of the largest universities of Turkey with 70.081 students from all over Turkey and 1.366 foreign students from 111 countries study. Though its distinguished position in Turkish Higher Education area, Dokuz Eylül University intends to foster its global presence in education and research and to become a key player in the global knowledge network. Dokuz Eylül University was selected as one of the 20 pilot universities by Turkish Higher Education Council (YÖK) in 2018 for implementing the internationalisation strategy and thus it has become one of the pioneer universities in Turkey which take the leading role in the process of internationalisation of Turkish Higher Education. DEU benefits largely from its geographical position as being located in the city of Izmir and being at the crossroads of Europe, Asia, Africa and Middle East. Izmir is called as the pearl of the Aegean with its mild Mediterranean climate, multi-cultural social life and strong economy. Izmir is the city of university students, artists, scientists and business people. It hosts six state universities and two private foundation universities. DEU has 17 faculties involving the fields maritime, education, literature, science, fine arts, nursing, law, economics and administrative sciences, theology, business, architecture, engineering, medicine, veterinary, dentistry, tourism, sports sciences, 10 graduate schools and institutes, 1 conservatory, 3 schools,  6 vocational schools and 50 research and application centers. Dokuz Eylül University offers a lively scientific milieu with the total number of 3.186 academic staff including 728 Professors, 357 Associate Professors, 493 Dr. Faculty Members. At DEU, you have the opportunity to become a student at one of the 447 postgraduate programmes, 126 BA level programmes, 62 associate degree programmes. DEU library offers a great opportunity of research for our students and researchers with 361.118 print books, 459.073 e-books, 99.617 e-journals. Dokuz Eylül University has been granted European Credit Transfer System (ECTS) Label and Diploma Supplement (DS) Label by the European Commission. These ECTS label and Diploma Supplement Label are granted to Dokuz Eylül University upon its excellence in the application of procedures regarding the recognition of academic qualifications for student mobility. Dokuz Eylül University actively participates in exchange programmes with many European countries. DEU which participated in the Erasmus Mobility Program since the 2003 – 2004 academic year, has 355 inter-institutional agreements. Again, 2,221 students of Dokuz Eylül University were sent abroad for training and 1,028 students came to the university from abroad since the start of Erasmus programme. Dokuz Eylül University also takes part in Mevlana Exchange Programme which involves exchange opportunities with higher education institutions all over the world without geographical discrimination. Students may study abroad for one (minimum) or two (maximum) terms and academic staff may lecture abroad from one week (minimum) to three months (maximum). Accordingly, students and academic staff from any country may benefit from this programme being hosted by Turkish higher education institutions in order to study or lecture. DEU also has bilateral academic collaborations with 76 education and research centers world-wide. As part of its internationalisation strategy, the course/subject titles of the all-degree programmes are easily available at the website of Dokuz Eylül University. Dokuz Eylül University publishes the course catalogue in the national language and in English. All interested parties can easily access the catalogue which provides detailed, user-friendly and up-to-date information on the institution’s learning environment involving the qualifications offered, the learning, teaching and assessment procedures, the level of programmes. The course catalog also involves information on the programme outcomes and the contact information for the programme and courses. The course catalogue is available at the homepage of the university and you can reach it here: http://debis.deu.edu.tr/ders-katalog/2020-2021/eng/index.html Virtual DEU Tour With 360-degree views of the academic units, enjoy visiting DEU at home. The tour is easy to navigate. You can also find out more about the academic units by checking out the information package/course catalog at the homepage of DEU and by visiting the websites of the academic units. Virtual DEU Tour başlığı ve tıklayınca: http://sanaltur.deu.edu.tr/ Interested in discovering dijital heritage? You can visit Şükrü Tül Collection of Ancient Relics. This is an innovative initiative and contribution of DEU to the city heritage by combining technology and museology. As part of the social responsibility of DEU, objects and works with historical value are exhibited online. Visit Virtual Museum, the Faculty of Letters başlığı ve tıklayınca  http://sanalmuze.deu.edu.tr/ My City, Izmir Izmir is located on the Aegean cost of Turkey. It is the third largest city of Turkey in terms of population. Its mild Mediterranean climate with 300 sunny days a year, the beautiful Aegean Sea, the thousands’ years of civilisation history, multiculturalism and lively social life, strong economy, diversity of agricultural products and seafood make Izmir a perfect location for living. Also, Izmir is home to thousands of university students. It hosts six state and two private foundation universities. With its strong economy, Izmir offers internship and employment opportunities to students. We invite you to learn more about our city. Why not looking at the audiovisuals provided below. Visit Izmir, https://www.visitizmir.org/en A day in Izmir: https://www.izmir.bel.tr/en/a-day-in-izmir/517/3181 About Izmir, Guideline by the Metropolitan City of Izmir : http://www.izmir.bel.tr/YuklenenDosyalar/Yayinlar About Izmir, Multi-lingual booklets, by the Metropolitan City of Izmir: https://www.izmir.bel.tr/en/izmir-city-booklet/518/3180 Museums in Izmir: https://www.izmir.bel.tr/en/museums/522/3195 Art galleries in Izmir: https://www.izmir.bel.tr/en/art-galleries/524/3196 Internationalisation Strategy Internationalisation can be defined as “the process of integrating an international, intercultural, or global dimension into the purpose, functions or delivery” of higher education (Knight, 2008, p. 21).  DEU considers internationalisation not an end in itself but as a drive for improvement with the aim to infuse international perspective into its institutional culture. Internationalisation strategy of DEU involves attracting researchers to DEU and preventing brain drain, increasing transnational mobility of both outgoing and incoming students. Besides, it aims at internationalisation of the curriculum through adaptations in line with the Bologna process, diversifying teaching and research staff, strengthening research and knowledge production through strategic partnerships at both national and international level… Read More © Dokuz Eylul University