Erasmus+ Partnerships | DEU International Website Menüye Geç Home About Student International Student Admissions Academic Supervision Degree Programs Course Catalog Scholarships for International Students Student Visa Residence Permit Health Insurance Tuition Fees Academic Calendar Career Planning & Alumni Relations Erasmus+ Student Mobility Message from Our Students Student Guidebook Study in Turkey Research Post-Graduate Education Research and Application Centers Scientific Research Unit Technology and Innovation DEU Labs Employment Procedures for Foreign Staff Academic Units Library Partnerships Erasmus+ Partnerships Global Partnerships Mevlana Partnerships International Relations Office Home Erasmus+ Partnerships Erasmus+ Partnerships The DEU benefits largely from its geographical position as being at the crossroads of Europe, Asia, Africa and Middle East and has a geographical dispersed internationalisation strategy (covering both EU and non-EU countries). DEU actively participates in exchange programmes with many European countries. Dokuz Eylül University, which participated in the Erasmus Mobility Program as of the 2003 – 2004 academic year, has 355 inter-institutional agreements. Again, 2,221 students of Dokuz Eylul University were sent abroad for training and 1,028 students came to the university from abroad. Dokuz Eylül University also takes part in Mevlana Exchange Programme which involves exchange opportunities with higher education institutions all over the world without geographical discrimination. Students may study abroad for one (minimum)  or two (maximum) terms and academic staff may lecture abroad from one week (minimum) to three months (maximum). Accordingly, students and academic staff from any country may benefit from this programme being hosted by Turkish higher education institutions in order to study or lecture. Erasmus+ Exchange Programme The Erasmus+ programme is an education programme of the EU for promoting multilateral cooperation between the higher education institutions in Europe. It provides a complimentary financial support –as grant- for higher education institutions to create and realize their mutual projects, exchange students, administrative and academic personnel. This programme was named after the Dutch scientist Erasmus (1469-1536) who was one of the important representatives of the Renaissance Humanism, because of the fact that he stayed in different European countries both as a student and academician. What Is Not The Erasmus Programme? The Erasmus Programme is not a “foreign language learning programme”. The Erasmus Programme is not exactly a “scholarship” programme. The Erasmus Programme is not a “diploma” programme. The Erasmus Programme is not a “research” programme. Erasmus: Advantages and Opportunities Flexibility: Taking into account the importance of flexibility in today’s world, the advantage of the programme enabling flexibility in educational life can be understood clearly: to prepare students for their professional lives. The best preparation for the modern professional life, which requires adaptation to new conditions constantly, is to experience adaptation to new conditions also in educational life. Adaptability: The development of adaptability has also an important role in the preparation for professional life. The key determinants of success in today’s professional life include competences as working in a foreign country, adapting to its culture and advanced knowledge of foreign language. Even if you are sure that you will do the same work after graduation for a long time, Erasmus is offering you a priceless opportunity in developing your social adaptability because of the fact that you will have to enter into a dialogue with foreign cultures within the scope of this work, too. Maturity: Living and working in another country, being engaged in its administrative process and bureaucracy, meeting the European bureaucracy by filling tens of forms and completing all these procedures successfully will enhance your self-confidence. In addition, the experiences you gained will contribute to your maturity in an important way. Career: After you met the term flexibility in higher education, developed your adaptability and reached the required maturity level, the advantages you will have in the entrance to professional life are clear. The new lines you will add into your CV by gaining experiences abroad will enrich the studies in the countries participating in the programme and your professional life with new pages after graduation and the mutual exchange of educators in Europe! Aim of the Programme The aim of the programme is to improve the quality of higher education in Europe and strengthen the dimension of it. This aim can be summarized as offering good practices in Europe’s different countries for the benefit of the whole. The Erasmus programme is trying to fulfill the stated aims by promoting intercountry cooperation between universities, recognizing students’ degrees academically and contributing to the development of the transparency. The geographical distribution and the number of the Erasmus agreements shows the excellence of Erasmus Exchange Programme at Dokuz Eylül University. For example, DEU has 81 agreements with universities in Germany, 33 agreements with universities in Italy, 26 agreements with universities in France, 20 agreements with universities in Greece, 19 agreements with universities in Spain. To see the full version Dokuz Eylül University European Union Education and Youth Programmes Erasmus + Programme Student Mobility Directive, click here: http://international.deu.edu.tr/wp-content/uploads/2014/12/DEU-Erasmus-Programme-Student-Mobility-Directive.pdf To see the list of Erasmus+ Agreements our University has, click here: http://international.deu.edu.tr/en/erasmus-anlasmalari/ LIST OF ERASMUS PARTNERSHIPS Partnerships Erasmus+ Partnerships Global Partnerships Mevlana Partnerships © Dokuz Eylul University