Residence Permit | DEU International Website Menüye Geç Home About Student International Student Admissions Academic Supervision Degree Programs Course Catalog Scholarships for International Students Student Visa Residence Permit Health Insurance Tuition Fees Academic Calendar Career Planning & Alumni Relations Erasmus+ Student Mobility Message from Our Students Student Guidebook Study in Turkey Research Post-Graduate Education Research and Application Centers Scientific Research Unit Technology and Innovation DEU Labs Employment Procedures for Foreign Staff Academic Units Library Partnerships Erasmus+ Partnerships Global Partnerships Mevlana Partnerships International Relations Office Home Residence Permit Residence Permit Within one month after you enter Turkey you must apply for your Residence Permit at the Republic of Turkey Ministry of Interior Directorate Provincial Migration Management (T.C. İçişleri Bakanlığı Göç İdaresi, İzmir İl Müdürlüğü) Do not wait too long to schedule an online appointment because available dates are limited. We strongly recommend you schedule this appointment on your first day of arrival. According to new regulation, all international students must obtain a Health Insurance that is valid in Turkey to be able to receive the residence permit. Address: KEMERALTI MAHALLESİ 855 SOKAK NO:40/A KONAK / İZMİR E-POSTA: izmir@goc.gov.tr TEL : 0 232 402 44 62 FAX : 0 232 484 32 70 https://goo.gl/maps/UijcqYfXepB2 Each Student is required to make an individual appointment through the internet. You can follow the steps below: First go to https://e-ikamet.goc.gov.tr Then you can change the language as English from the upper right side. Select the pink “I lodge an application for residence permit for the first time” Then select the type of application as “I would like to lodge a new application”. Fill the form Below is the list of documents you must submit for your residence permit application. Generally you can pick up your residence permit along with your passport after a week as your passport is kept along with your application documents. You must pick up your own permit. Residence Permit Application Form (must be signed by the foreigner and/or his/her legal representative) Passport or original and photocopy of passport substitute document (pages containing identity information and the page containing photo and processed pages) Four (4) pcs photos (must have been taken within the last 6 months, against a white background and biometric. Do not upload family, selfie, unrecognizable, non up-to date or black and white photos into the system, otherwise residence permit document shall not be issued!) Declaration which states that financial capacity is to be provided sufficiently and regularly throughout the stay (Is declared in the Application Form. Directorate may request supporting documents.) Valid health insurance (Insurance period must cover the intended residence permit One of the following document is considered as sufficient):E-signed/signed and stamped/sealed document to be obtained from provincial social security units which states that theforeigner is benefiting from the health services in Turkey within the scope of bilateral social security agreements. E-signed/signed and stamped/sealed provision document received from Social Security Institution (Provision documents to be received from Social Security Institution must be in such a manner that they must be both supportive and cover family members.) E-signed/signed and stamped/sealed provision document received from Social Security Institution (Provision documents tobe received from Social Security Institution must be in such a manner that they must be both supportive and cover family members.) Private health insurance (The policy must have the expression of “This policy covers the minimum coverage stipulated in the circular no 9, dated 06.06.2014, on private health insurance required to be taken out for residence permit applications.”. Please present signed and stamped/sealed original of your insurance policy during application! For extension applications, attach only approved (sealed, signed) copy of your policy into your application file.) Student certificate which shows that you are entitled actively to benefit from the rights of being a student (e-signed/signed and stamped/sealed document). Student Academic Calendar Academic Supervision International Student Admissions Degree Programs Course Catalog Scholarships for International Students Student Visa Residence Permit Health Insurance Tuition Fees Career Planning & Alumni Relations Erasmus+ Student Mobility Message from Our Students Student Guidebook Study in Turkey © Dokuz Eylul University